1. Logic used for overlap detection:
To detect overlapping bookings, I leveraged the fact that HTML <input type="time"> fields natively output time as a 24-hour string (e.g., "14:30"). In JavaScript, these 24-hour strings can be compared directly using standard comparison operators without needing complex date parsing.

The logic first filters existing bookings to find those on the same date and for the same room. Then, it evaluates the time intervals using this specific condition:
isOverlapping = (newStartTime < existingEndTime) && (newEndTime > existingStartTime)

If this statement evaluates to true, it means the new booking cuts into an existing time slot, and the system blocks the submission.

2. What parts were AI-generated:
I built the React component structure, the state management (using useState), the UI layout, and the search functionality entirely on my own. I used AI specifically as a problem-solving assistant for the complex time logic. I prompted the AI to help me find the most efficient mathematical formula to detect overlapping time intervals and asked it to generate the small helper function (formatTo12Hour) to convert 24-hour time strings into human-readable 12-hour AM/PM formats for the UI.

3. What you corrected from AI output:
When I initially asked the AI for overlap detection, it suggested a highly complex solution that involved parsing the time strings into full JavaScript Date objects and comparing their epoch timestamps. I realized this was over-engineered and unnecessary for simple same-day scheduling. I corrected this by throwing out the Date object approach and relying solely on the string comparison method ("09:00" < "14:00"), which made the code much lighter and faster.

4. What you improved beyond AI:
I focused heavily on the user experience and the overall architecture:

Professional Layout: I moved away from a basic top-to-bottom form and implemented a modern, two-column SaaS-style dashboard.

Auto-Sorting: I added custom logic to ensure that whenever a new booking is submitted, the schedule array automatically sorts itself chronologically by date and time, keeping the feed organized.

Search/Filtering: I implemented the optional search requirement, allowing users to filter the schedule dynamically by typing in a room name or date.

5. What you would verify before shipping to production:

Race Conditions: On the frontend, if two users hit "Confirm Booking" for the same room at the exact same millisecond, the UI can't prevent both from going through. Before shipping, I would verify that the backend database has strict unique constraints to lock the time block.

Timezone Normalization: Currently, the app relies on the user's local browser time. I would ensure all times are converted to UTC before being sent to the server to prevent conflicts between remote teams in different timezones.

Past-Date Validation: I would add a strict check to prevent users from booking rooms on dates or times that have already passed.

6. What you would improve if given 2 more days:

Backend Integration: Given my familiarity with full-stack development, I would connect this React frontend to a robust Node.js/Express backend with a MongoDB database so that bookings persist across sessions.

Visual Calendar View: I would upgrade the right-side feed from a list format into a visual weekly grid (similar to Google Calendar), making it easier for users to spot open time slots visually.

User Authentication & Permissions: I would add a login system so bookings are tied to specific users, allowing them to edit or cancel only the meetings they created.